all right thank you very much for that
introduction uh heather cuibo i run
mid-market and commercial sales at
databricks in the americas and i'm
excited to talk to you today
uh about how
uh over the last four and a half years
i've been working on growing
uh our team by a hundred percent year
over year um really this is a um
an effort that requires a tremendous
amount of execution
and um it's one of those things where i
uh
i'm happy to share with you um what it
is we're we're working on inside of
databricks and if i could get to the
next slide please
yeah so um
my belief is is that in order to
continuously successfully execute you're
gonna need some strong frameworks that
you're going to lean on and iterate
against
um year-over-year
so i'm hoping to share with you a couple
of these frameworks
that i've leaned on to help scale the
business i think these can be scaled
down to no matter what size your sales
team is
and looking forward to sharing it with
you um so the first thing that i often
lean on
is the databricks company values
so
these are these are very customized to
databricks they are
absolutely ones uh that we each sleep
and breathe and an
alignment with our mission which is
around uh data and ai and a uniform
platform for practitioners and our goals
which are changing every single year
but we lean on these company values
teamwork makes the dream work customer
and partner obsession
own it and let the data decide and it
kind of dictates almost everything that
we do and these frameworks that i'm
going to talk about are deeply rooted in
these company values and i think you
know these values are whatever they may
be at your company
they really live when as a sales leader
and as a leadership team we bring them
to life
so
um
with that in mind i'll move on to the
first framework here and culture is one
of those things that it evolves you know
it's really tough to pin down but it's
actually a really critical part
of how you're going to scale your
organization
and what i have right here is a word
cloud
that was recently uh created
from about 20 cross-functional business
partners from within the databricks team
and as you can see teamwork is in there
dedicated that's you know close to
ownership
uh leadership leaders scrappy
driven um
you know these are these are uh
beliefs that we have within the
mid-market and commercial sales team um
so this this example here is one very
recently where i went out to
cross-functional business partners and
said okay
can you tell me give me three words
that you use to describe my team you
work with my team all the time so so
help me understand what is my culture
from an outside perspective
i have also done this exercise um with
just leaders you know writing uh
words on a post-it and saying how do we
want to be defined if we were going to
curate our own culture within our team
what would be
the hallmarks of that and i'm looking
for alignment between how we're
perceived outside and how we're wanting
ourselves to perc be perceived and then
lastly to really give ownership to the
the account executives as well
you know i i often do the similar
exercise with them you know we might
have them go to a whiteboard and write
down what is it that you want the
culture to be known for how is it that
you really want others to think about
you and what do you want to look back on
your time on this team and at this
company what do you want to use as the
the reflection and so i think culture is
something that you know is incredibly
important to be constantly aware of and
be curating and there's these really
simple
ways to do it and really kind of get the
visual and have the impact
and really own the culture as opposed to
just uh
letting it organically happen
the second framework that i wanted to
share with you today is probably what i
would consider the most important as you
think about building a sales team and
then scaling it over time i don't think
a scorecard is incredibly um
unique it's not something that i'm doing
that's uh
you know
special what what is i think special is
that we're very data-driven around it
and we own what it is that we're putting
into the scorecard so what you can see
here are the characteristics
that we are looking for when we're doing
our phone conversations or when we're
doing in-person interviews
and we have a waiting for each one of
these and as an interview is occurring
different people on the panel are given
very specific
characteristics to dive into and to
really understand at a deeper and deeper
level and then they give a rating one to
five we multiply that by the weighting
and you get an output of a score
and that is um that's interesting and of
itself but then what we're also doing is
we're taking that score
and we're comparing it to our top
performers where we've also
you know we've obviously interviewed
them and hired them as well and so we're
constantly looking to see
how are we
doing in raising the bar around the aes
that we're bringing on
and then regularly we come back as a
leadership team and as an interview team
and we say do we have this right i'll
give an example of something that has
modified over the last couple of years
and that is really around big data
selling experience you know a couple
years ago you had to already know the
ecosystem in order to be good at it but
as we've grown as a company it's not
actually as huge of a percentage as it
was a couple years ago and so we can
shift our percentage weighting to other
areas that might matter a little bit
more and then we do that check to see
well how how are the current
interviewees doing against the top
performers when they were interviewing
and we're constantly iterating
owning this
being as data driven as we can in a
process that can be very um subjective
sometimes and we use this as a way to
keep ourselves accountable
and make sure that we're constantly
doing the best that we can
the reason why i think this is the most
important is because this is where i
probably spend most of my time outside
of time talking with customers and
partners
and in our hiring process
uh you have a couple in-person uh 30 to
45-minute phone conversations and then
our final stage is a presentation and a
mock call and this presentation and mock
call is a tremendous investment of time
from my leadership team it's almost a
half a day of collective time and to me
that's a very expensive meeting and i
can't have expensive meetings with my
team if we're not aligned on what good
looks like and we're uh not really truly
testing to make sure we're bringing the
best people onto the team so i i think
this piece in particular has like a 10x
return on getting your team aligned on
what good looks like making sure that
you're constantly evaluating and
iterating and adapting for what your
business needs at any given point in
time
okay so we've got these rock star aes on
the team and you know one of the first
questions that they ask is
tell me
what are the best aes doing and so in
order to uh
really understand and again be data
driven
um i worked with my sales performance
team to
identify what we call the i ideal ae
profile
and if you can move to the next slide
please this is essentially um looking
back and reverse engineering
what the best people on the team are
doing
on a six-month basis in order to
overachieve on their targets so you
could see a consistent record of uh
perform record uh consistent over
achievement is one of the key things
we're looking for but then as soon as
somebody comes into databricks we're
wanting to give them the keys to the
castle and say okay if you want to be an
overachiever here
here's the way that you manage yourself
and again this is giving that ownership
to the account executives specifically
to say these are the kinds of activities
that you're going to be wanting to
hold yourself accountable to there are
conversion rates there are activities
and you can see we've broken it down to
different stages of the customer life
cycle
the first time we did this project we
actually only had four account
executives we really just took the cream
of the crop
um the second iteration of this as you
can see we had 13 aes on the team that
we were building this model around and
we get very we can get even more
specific
um and the way that we're doing this is
we're incorporating a variety of
different data sources
um we're looking at salesforce data we
use outreach and gong in our tech stack
and then we're also scraping calendar
data
to make sure that we're really as
accountable as we can be to how account
executives are spending their time
um and like i said we're reverse
engineering and then we're building this
all into a dashboard
so that we can then
inspect and see how people are doing on
a weekly and monthly basis against these
ideal targets and really like i said
we're giving them the keys to say um on
a quantitative basis this is what you
should be
expecting yourself to do
in order to over achieve on your number
and our goal is to have you know 100
at or above their quota um obviously it
doesn't necessarily address what's going
on in the qualitative side
of their business so um
if we could actually go one more slide i
wanted to take this one level depot so
we come because we're doing calendar
scraping we're also able to give them
really specific guidance on exactly how
much time they should be spending with
the meetings that they're having again
you know when you've got
uh at this point there's a team of
nearly 70 account executives you're
constantly trying to figure out how do
we optimize for time and performance and
so with this we're saying this is what
the best people are doing and as you can
see it's very disproportionately time
spent on new prospects um and that is
completely okay with me because
for us to grow a hundred percent
year-over-year we're constantly adding
new customers to our account base 30
with customers right we've got our
customer
uh obsession and 15 of the time with
partners and so really being specific
and then doing the look back regularly
and having this be a conversation piece
in one-on-ones is super valuable to help
ae's managers and myself at a more macro
level know where we can go in and make
adjustments to help on the qualitative
side
um and like i said we refresh this and
we you know if we if we get new data or
we think there's something that's
relevant to pull in and look at we're
gonna we're gonna work together with
that sales performance team and and
figure out how do we tweak this and and
we can i plan to continue tweaking this
every six months in order to
um really
uh have my my finger on the pulse
um okay so we've got all this
qualitative data on what you should be
doing but how do you get in sorry you've
got quantitative data how do you get
into the qualitative data
and um there's a renee brown quote that
i really love
and it it is um
the quote goes like this to be clear is
to be kind to be unclear is to be unkind
and you know a high performing sales
organization can be very kind obviously
we're setting expectations on what we
want from activities but then we're
constantly building structure into our
quarterly cadence
on what we're going to
be inspecting and where we're going to
get the
the foundation of our collective
execution success
so every quarter i'm getting the
leadership team together and we're
talking through how did we do last
quarter what are we planning to do next
quarter
um and we're doing a little bit of
enablement for ourselves
we're then going to take that to the
account executive team and we're going
to say okay we're usually it's a day and
a half or two days ideally in person but
we've done them virtually as well
and you
we're going to focus heavily on
enablement because in the leadership
conversation we've figured out where the
gaps are where are our gaps on our
ability to execute better and better and
so then we're going to turn that to the
account executives and we're going to do
enablement and training around that
interspersed we're also doing a lot of
enablement around all hands you know
it's a very dynamic industry databricks
is a very dynamic company there's a lot
of different things that the team could
focus on but bringing it back to time
we're trying to get them focused on the
most important things
we've got forecast meetings that are
happening on a weekly cadence
and everybody knows those forecast
meetings are really critical for them to
communicate their building blocks to the
business
but where we really get into quality at
an account executive level is doing
their territory reviews
and a gap to goal analysis so in the
beginning of the quarter we're going to
do a territory review midway through
if
if there is a gap we're going to do a
gap to goal analysis and we're going to
develop the plan
on how to fill the gap so everybody is
very clear on exactly what's needed to
execute well
if somebody is over
their expected target
then they get a stretch goal and that's
really building a plan for being one of
those ideal aes
and then continuously going on
throughout all of this i was even on one
this morning is a deal review and we
will uh definitely do a deal review for
every deal that has been committed by
the account executive that's them saying
this deal is going to come in so we'll
inspect that and make sure that they
have the full team
behind them
leaning on the teamwork makes the dream
work and then
um
we'll also do later stage deal reviews
uh if somebody's new to the team we
might give them a little extra deal
review we'll look at everything so it's
really customized to success of the
individual and really focused on quality
and enablement and helping them execute
the best that they can
um
so you know and we have thresholds on on
where we expect deal reviews to happen
no matter what and aes know that this is
to be expected that all commit deals and
a deal over a certain dollar amount is
going to get a deal review there's a
template there's a template for the
territory review there's a template for
qbr's and so this is this is all
something where i think again back to
the brene brown quote to be clear is to
be kind it's all about setting
expectations and then watch wash rinse
repeat four times a year so that they
know exactly how to build for success
and they can really own that um
themselves as much as anything
and then lastly uh you gotta celebrate
right if your team's doing incredibly
well it's super important to have
celebrations so we have email when wires
that actually go out to the whole
company that's awesome but we like to
get a little funky on mid-market
commercial and we actually have um a
slack channel just called midmark
commercial wins and that's where we
bring in a lot of the team members that
are also
um
contributing to the deals this could be
on the legal side this could be on sales
operations this could be um
in our solutions architect team so this
is not just a place where you know the
ae is celebrated we're celebrating the
whole team and everybody who's um
contributed uh to the to the deal
happening overall that's what you can
see on the on the bottom part there and
i've had people tell me this is their
favorite channel because it's literally
only goodness and high fives and
celebrations across the board
i'm also using it as a little bit of a
um
a change agent if you could say
so we're doing a change in our business
moving from
uh focusing on
uh
signed contracts to what is going on on
the customers uh usage of the platform
or their consumption and again being
customer obsessed they want to use the
platform so how are we helping them do
that and so we've started uh introducing
automated alerts
sorry if you go back one more time okay
so automated alerts that bring broad
exposure to everybody that a milestone
has been reached within a customer
account and then we're beginning to
start to celebrate those wins as well um
that's been a
recent innovation that's really brought
a lot of a lot more um interest into
what is going on inside the customer
base and not just around signed
contracts
um okay and so
one of the things uh you know the three
takeaways that i would say for uh
my presentation today is you know high
growth high performing sales team you
got to have some frameworks um our
values at databricks are the guiding
star they're the underpinnings of these
frameworks and you know these these
frameworks can be adapted to the values
that you have at your company as well
um you know the team develops and
iterates so i work with the sales
performance team i work with my
management team extensively on making
sure that we are
all very happy with how these frameworks
are being executed and we're open to
adjusting and adapting as the conditions
take change
um as we grow and maybe something just
doesn't work anymore and so we're gonna
we're gonna swap it out and find
something to achieve the same goal and
then i really believe repeatable account
executive success comes from good
clarity both data driven
and
qual
qualitative and then structure and
giving them a real
clear understanding of what's going to
be expected from them and how they can
be successful within that framework
thank you very very much those are my
prepared remarks if you have any
questions uh happy to take some
okay this is a quiet group
okay here we go now i'm getting it okay
so um the first question is how does
databricks internally share and
communicate your values so they're top
of mind for teams oh great question um
you know we we definitely tie it to
celebrations so we have a quarterly
values in action
uh award and that's at the company level
ali god see our ceo and amy reichenator
our chief cro um she uh sorry
chief hr officer um they
collect submissions from every business
unit in the company and we regularly
celebrate those um
we talk about our values quite regularly
as well
um so teamwork makes the dreamwork is
one of the absolute favorite ones um on
the sales team you know so that's why we
celebrate it in in so many different
ways and we give tons of shout outs
in a wide variety of different manners
to people who are really demonstrating
teamwork makes the dream work
um
so next question is um
what's the most important kpi to track
for a high performing sales team um
you know i
there's a whole lot of important kpis
but i think understanding your pipeline
coverage ratio
what you need in order to hit your
targets and what your close rates are
against that pipeline uh amount is
actually you know pretty fundamental um
so we we actually inspect our pipeline
coverage ratios every week and we are
working to um impr if we're hitting the
target that's great if we're above the
target that's a strong indicator that
there's going to be over success and if
there's a gap uh we often will do a
spiff um or something to motivate the
sdr and the account executive team to um
do extra effort around pipeline building
great question okay
uh what metric metrics or data is shared
across your quarterly leadership qbr
versus your account executive qbr versus
all hands um
databricks is a company that's pretty
big on transparency so we are
fairly consistent in what we're sharing
um across the board um there's not a lot
of difference um because it is important
that uh you know tying back to the
vision uh mission values and goals
everybody needs to know what the high
level goals are and they need to know
how we're tracking against them they
need to own
their piece in helping them be achieved
and so we're we're pretty consistent
across the board the the biggest thing
is that you know we
we
will probably get a little bit more
customized to the team that we're
presenting to
but whether it's in a company all hands
a sales all hands a qbr or a territory
plan you know we're we're talking about
all the high level uh metrics across the
board
um so we don't really filter it down
uh next question is do you involve other
teams leaders or anyone who wants to
join in your qbr or pipeline review
meetings oh great question
yes my key business partners are the
two other customer facing business units
our field engineering team and our
customer success team and we invite
everyone from field engineering and
everyone from the customer success team
to join our quarterly business reviews
we need to have tremendous alignment and
teamwork across those three groups and
then we also have other teams that will
attend as well
other overlay sales
teams marketing
um
demand generation
uh sometimes product uh oftentimes we
have product actually presenting to us
but we have just a lot of different
teams that are interested in hearing
what we're talking about in the qbr or
they're actually presenting to the team
so that we can have a lot of
cross-directional conversations in those
qbrs
and just just another point in the qbr
you know it's heavily enablement and
training focus but it's a conversation
and sometimes it's a conversation with
60 people but that's okay and it gets a
little messy it's not it's not always
pretty
um we we are looking for the challenges
so that we can solve the challenges as a
team we're looking for
like the absolute rock star breakout
performances so that we can celebrate
and learn from those and we we talk
about things that didn't work as well
and so it's it's all just to you know
really get us all working together as a
team and learning from each other as
much as possible
okay next question how do you measure
and then handle when an ae is not quite
a good fit yes this is why we spend so
much time making sure that we've got a
good fit to begin with and why that
scorecard is hugely important
um
the
i mean it's it's the the worst part of
the job in my mind is when it's not a
good fit um ideally you can come to a
mutual agreement and you know it's a
really positive experience on both sides
um but what we're doing along the way is
we're we're being as clear as we can be
with what's expected and if somebody's
not meeting expectations we're going to
work to get them the help that they need
in order to meet expectations and then
if that's still not a fit then you know
we we do find ways uh to part ways
again uh there i'm sure there are
statistics on how expensive it is to
make a miss higher that's why we focus
so heavily on that ae scorecard and
really making sure that the hiring panel
which which on my team is about four to
five people that hiring panel really has
a good idea of what good looks like
okay so next question is do you have a
framework you utilize to manage internal
change as you continue to improve and
refine your processes oh that's a good
one uh
not one that's in my in my tool bag
quite yet uh you know a lot of that is
handled through manager meetings and um
you know
really focusing in on how are we going
to communicate change what's the
rationale behind the change like there's
always the what but if you're not
effectively communicating the why
a change is happening then you know the
team's not going to get behind you but
if they understand the why and they
understand how it ties back to the
values
the mission and goals of the company
then it's actually not as hard as as you
think it's going to be often and again
that that transparency regular
communication
being comfortable handling challenging
conversations that makes a lot of change
management um a lot easier
um and then here we go uh what's the
difference between a qbr and an all
hands great question so in all hands is
going to be um you know
more of like an hour long meeting
um and we're doing them every other week
um sometimes people do them every month
um and it's really just the opportunity
to get together and update do a spot
update
um in a qbr we are
much more deeply focused on a broad
amount of enablement we're gonna do some
breakout sessions we're going to do team
building we're going to go out and we're
going to have fun and get to know each
other on a personal level and so that's
why we're flying people
into you know a city and really having
that person-to-person connection
you know the
the value of really trusting
and knowing the people that you're
working with it it just helps
things move much more smoothly and that
trust building doesn't come
when you're only focused on the business
itself i'm a big believer and you got to
have fun um we we give out awards in
these qbr's as well and and they're
they're pretty big productions so um
they're what the all hands is more like
um continuous regular communication and
maybe a little bit of light light
enablement but the qbr is a quarterly
deep dive hopefully that answers your
question
[Music]
you